hello
holy moly there's 482 people in here
let me just say a quick hello to all of
you i'm going to mention
everybody's name no way because that's
impossible the chat's going crazy
i can see john marielle sylveria stephen
anam gulam gurpreet shruti mary
jaya oh my god there's a lot of people
here
hey it's very good to see you all this
is terrific um
okay this is the first time we're doing
a live ielts
speaking where i'm actually going to ask
you to participate in this one
and actually do some ielts speaking part
one some speaking part two and some
speaking part
three uh i'm actually going to give you
a little bit of feedback
but because we have so many people in
here it's just hit
500 people obviously i cannot choose
everybody so
i might actually just choose randomly
and hopefully you'll be
be one of the people who are chosen if
not you can always go and check out
e2language.com and do the tutorials and
the live classes there okay cool
all right so what are we going to do let
me just bring up my presentation
and then we'll get started
cool just sharing my screen
okay rock and roll i think that's all
working
okay hello everybody my name is jay i'm
one of the expert ielts teachers here at
e2 language thank you very much for
coming along
in today's lesson we're going to look at
ielts speaking which you probably know
about
more specifically in this class i'm
going to give you an
overview of ielts speaking if you are
unfamiliar with it
we're going to look at part one but not
before we firstly look at some methods
to
help you maximize your scores in part
one
in fact we're going to look at e2
methods for all of the different ielts
speaking parts because they're extremely
helpful
and they hone in on the criteria or the
scoring
and for each of these speaking parts one
two and three
as i mentioned we'll do an open mic and
i'll get you to actually speak and i'll
give you a bit of feedback
i've got something for me to write down
on here
then at the end we'll do a little q a
the class should go for about an
hour okay so
if you are unfamiliar with ielts
speaking let me just go through this
quite quickly
the whole thing goes for about 11 to 14
minutes and
because you'll be crazy nervous and it's
all kind of strange it goes
very quickly indeed as mentioned there
are three parts
it's done one-on-one with an examiner it
might be done online via zoom or it
might be done face to face it depends
where you are in the world
part one we call small talk we'll look
at that in more depth
part two is the two minute monologue
that's
a tricky part and part three is a
discussion
each part goes for about three to five
minutes
now importantly this is how you're
scored on test day and this is what it's
all about okay
so you scored on well it says here four
things but you scored more
on more things than that you scored on
fluency which is one thing
coherence which is another vocabulary
range that is how broad your vocabulary
is
vocabulary precision or accuracy
grammatical range that is how vast your
grammar is as well as grammatical
accuracy and of course your scored on
pronunciation
now all of these things are really quite
complicated and there's lots of little
parts that go into these
like pronunciation for example is a what
can i say
it has many different ingredients
okay this is what the examiner let's
pretend i'm the examiner today
this is what i'll be looking at while
you're doing your speaking i'm looking
at this weird table here of band
descriptors
and you can see here band 9 eight seven
six five four three two one and zero
means you didn't go to the exam
and you can see here the different
criteria that i just mentioned
the examiner is going to give you a
score out of
nine for each of the criteria
and then the examiner will find an
average and that will become your
speaking score
let's think about the scoring in more
depth before we get started
because you need to be keeping this in
mind while you're doing your speaking
fluency and coherence means you speak
with
not without effort with little effort
everybody has to strain when they're
speaking to find the vocabulary and the
grammar etc
but hopefully you're not exerting too
much effort to find that vocab in
grammar
coherence means you're using connected
sorry connecting words throughout your
speech
so it runs in a logical way and you're
also developing your topics fully with
reasons and examples and contrast etc
this is part of the methods that we'll
look at vocabulary
you need to be precise that is the word
that you'll use
that you use must make sense you need to
be
flexible because you need to describe a
number of different things
if you can you should use some less
common topical vocabulary for example
later on we're going to look at the
topic of education
maybe you'll mention words like tertiary
education or postgraduate degree
something like this so if you can throw
in specific
less common topical words that will help
you a lot
paraphrasing we'll talk about because
i'm going to ask you questions and
you'll need to transform those questions
into answers
grammar of course i mentioned needs to
be broad and precise or error-free
pronunciation means the sounds that
you're making are all clear
you're using good emphasis and stress
you're not speaking like a robot or
you're not being
monotone you're using connected speech
and intonation
all of this stuff i'm sure we've got
videos on the youtube channel about this
or you can check out the platform
e2language.com or you can check out e2
school for the pronunciation course
which i'll mention later on
okay imagine that it's test day
there's a waiting room and i've done
this test five times so i know what
actually happens here
so you'll be waiting there nervously
thinking oh my god oh my god oh my god
totally fine to be nervous your hands
will sweat your heart will beat
that's just the nature of the game the
examiner
will then read out your name okay and
you'll stand up and you'll walk
down a hallway or somewhere into a
classroom or into a small room
with the examiner along the way you can
do a little bit of small talk if you
like
me personally i like to just stay quiet
until the examiner talks to me
you can't really suck up to the examiner
in any way
you can't win points along the way to
the to the examining room okay
you'll sit down and then you'll do the
id check this is not assessed okay
the examiner will say my name is jay or
sally or john or whatever their name is
and they'll say can you tell me your
full name please and you'll tell them
your full name
and then they'll say what shall i call
you like for me i would say you can call
me jay right
and then the examiner will say can you
tell me where you're from
and can i see your id please in which
case you hand over your passport
don't forget your passport as mentioned
all of this
is not assessed okay
after the formalities are over you'll
get into part one which is
small talk okay this is where the
examiner will ask you
personal questions where you'll be
talking about your own experience
and this will go for four to five
minutes
so let's just look at the basics of part
one
so in total the examiner is going to ask
you around 12
questions on three different topics
and i have to say if having taken this
exam again
five times the topic sort of shift quite
suddenly as you'll see in a minute
and it's a little bit strange but this
is pretty easy part of the test
the first topic is going to be questions
about
what you do or where you live
for example they're going to ask you do
you work or are you
a student and a few other questions
related to that
or they'll ask you about where you live
in which case you'll talk about your
apartment or your house or living with
your family or where
whatever your situation is
in the second and third topic it'll be
chosen from a range of different topics
like
sport or hobbies or shopping or cooking
or computers etc
and the second topic they might start
asking you questions about
i don't know computers and then next
minute the examiner will say
do you like the rain and you think what
what are you talking about
so they've quickly transitioned from one
topic to the next so just be aware of
that
and just answer it calmly and say yes i
really like the rain blah blah blah blah
blah
okay so the questions are personal and
simple like do you live in a big city or
a small town or did you play sport as a
child
now before we actually do this i just
want to touch
on the e2 methods which are powerful
ways for you to maximize your scores on
test day
okay so in speaking part one when they
ask you one of these simple questions
you do not answer
in just one or a few words okay
you want to answer in a couple of good
sentences
so what you might do is give your
opinion you might provide a detail
you might give a contrast while i like
this some people like that
you might compare the past to the
present well i used to live in
an apartment over there but now i just
recently moved to a park
an apartment here whatever you might
compare the present to the future
at the moment i'm living in this
apartment but in a couple of weeks time
i'd like to move to
somewhere else and you're going to give
reasons as well
okay so just keep these in mind
let's do it okay uh who wants to go live
oh no i think we've maxed out the
webinar there's 500 people
hold on i need to also work out how to
do this so just bear with me
okay oh my god okay so i need to click
on participants
um okay gotcha participants
carmen lee let's do it
hold on
commonly no that's the chat
attendees gotcha this part okay now i'm
going to search your name
sorry this is the first time i've done
this allowed to talk
hello carmen can you hear me hello can
you hear me jay
yes i can hear you how fantastic are you
ready to answer a few
questions sure obviously thank you
all right let me do the little formality
thing first though okay because the
ielts examiner says some sort of
weird stuff okay so let me start by
saying this
now in this first part i'd like to ask
you some questions about yourself
let's talk about where you live do you
live in a house or an apartment
i live in a studio in hong kong which
only
about how big is that uh
about 100 square feet not too big
it's a kitchen together with the living
room everything squeezed together so
it's quite small
because the leaf at the living range is
very high in hong kong so i can't afford
to live in a very bad place
good probably a little bit too long
there coming i would have stopped after
the first part but that was good
i'll give you some more feedback in a
second let's do the second question
what's your favorite part of your home
the favorite part of my home would be
the
uh plethora of activities that we can
have
in my city because we can choose to have
different
types of food that we want and we have
different type of entertainments
such as watching movie in the cinema or
watching dramas in the theater and we
have lots of
shopping mall in our place okay um
will you stay there a long time do you
think
i believe that uh if i have a chance to
migrate to other countries i won't try
to stay because there is a
serious political uh and social unrest
in my location
so if it's possible i will try to
migrate to other country
okay terrific coming i'm going to stop
you there i'll just give you a little
bit of
feedback hold on i need to work out
what's going on
so let me
okay cool let's talk about carmen's
performance there
so carmen obviously has very good
english language skills in terms of
pronunciation her
pronunciation was clear as a bell i
would give you a very high score for
that
no doubt um i would also give you a high
score for
grammatical range and accuracy you were
maybe
i think there were a couple of little
grammatical issues but but really good
there
i think where you sort of stumbled was
in your fluency because especially in
that first question
you actually came up with quite a
complex idea which was how many square
feet your apartment is and you sort of
you got stuck there and there was quite
a bit of effort going on
so i would avoid complex ideas at this
stage
just keep it really simple and basic
the other thing you need to keep in mind
is that you can rehearse this you can
practice this because these questions
about where you live or what do you do
the examiners will ask these all the
time so don't try to
memorize something because that'll sound
awkward and strange but certainly do a
number of different rehearsals on them
and then just
answer spontaneously on test day that
was cool
okay we're going to shift gears um we're
going to move to
muhammad a deal okay hold on one second
there you are terrific
muhammad can you hear me hello sir thank
you so much for giving me a chance
to speak with you it's good to talk to
you what's your first language muhammad
um my first language is urdu i'm from
pakistan gotcha all right
very interesting okay imagine i'm the
examiner i'm now going to shift gears
and i'm going to ask you some other
questions
do you ride a bicycle yes i do i'm
really a big fan of bicycles every day
from from school from home to university
i ride on bicycles
a few days back you know i i i have an
accident
while riding a bicycle but thanks god
that i'm safe knowing and
i really love bicycle riding okay good
mohammed i'm just going to give you a
little tip here
just try to slow it down a little bit
okay
okay thanks all right let's go to the
second question
mohammed do you often use public
transport
yes i'm really uh into public transport
because uh it is you know a very not
not expensive and you don't have to wait
for long hours to go on
on the public transport so it is quite
comfortable
how could public transport be improved
in your country
yes it can be improved by providing the
facilities to the people near the houses
like in the downtown we have no public
transport so the best thing
is for the government is to create the
road the roadways that the people can
use the public transport more
efficiently and
they can save a lot of their times
okay thank you muhammad i'll now give
you a little bit of feedback
thank you so much
hold on one second and say we're talking
all right
let me give muhammad a little bit of
feedback there as you heard at the start
muhammad started off going a thousand
miles an hour and that's really
that's what happens when you get a bit
nervous and on test day you'll be
nervous going blah blah blah
you have to try and slow down and be a
little bit more
uh just speak at a moderate pace okay
fluency which is one of the criterion
that we saw before does not mean
speaking quickly it means speaking at a
moderate pace
and speaking without effort so overall
muhammad's fluency was pretty good there
was a little bit of strain there a
little bit of effort
i think the um in your first question
about the bicycle i think you probably
could have
stopped and not told me the other bit
about the accident
you don't need to go on for too long
here in part three we'll look at how we
actually go into a discussion okay
but just keep it relatively short sort
of speak for about you know eight
ten seconds something like that couple
of sentences that's enough
and then the examiner will ask you
another question there'll be chance
later on in part three to
get into much more um philosophical more
abstract better answers okay
coherence was quite good um grammatical
accuracy a few little
slips there an article um
the public transport for example there
was another one where there was a plural
noun which shouldn't have been a plural
noun these are quite minor
and i wouldn't really worry too much
about your accuracy and be focusing more
on the
pronunciation and clarity of your speech
your pronunciation is
good there's still a little bit of
interference from your first language
with particular sounds
but cool good effort oh by the way i
just want to go back to carmen
before who said the word plethora or
plethora
now for some reason there's a youtube
video out there saying that if you use
this word then you will get a high score
and
it's crazy that's a crazy idea you do
not have to use the word plethora
to get a high score in fact if you use
that word
and it's kind of out of context it
will decrease your score so just use the
vocabulary that is natural to that
particular question okay
all right that was fun i enjoyed hearing
your uh
uh your your efforts there that was cool
okay while we're at it and while we've
got people on youtube you should click
that subscribe button because we're
going to start doing these live streams
more often we might even start doing
writing ones as well
but if you really want to improve your
ielts check out e2 e2language.com and
take one of our prep courses
okay let's move on to speaking part two
this is where the rubber hits the road
this is where it starts getting
difficult
even for me as a native speaker and an
english language teacher
i find this particular part of the ielts
speaking test
challenging to say the least and this is
where we really need a method which i'll
get to in a second
so what is speaking part two first of
all this is where the examiner will give
you a
task card okay the task card will look
like this
let's just have a look at this task card
here it says describe a teacher who has
impressed you you should say who
he or she is how you first met him or
her
why you were impressed and explain how
you feel about this teacher
now okay so everybody
yes everybody will be able to talk about
some teacher from the past
okay so let's go through the little task
cards so first of all there's the
context
setting statement describe a teacher who
has impressed you that's the big idea
then you've got the dot points which you
should try to
address as well and finally at the
bottom of the task card there'll be
an additional more open thing to say
about it
so on test day you're given this task
card you're given
one minute to prepare and take notes
which is the
fastest one minute you'll ever
experience in your life
then you're asked to speak for up
to two minutes on this particular topic
they say between
one and two minutes but you should speak
for as long as you possibly can
and if the examiner stops you and they
will
at the two-minute mark that's completely
fine
each time that i've done the ielts test
the ielts examiner has said okay please
stop because that means i've reached two
minutes i haven't done anything wrong
i've just spoken for the maximum length
that's it okay so you don't need to stop
at one minute 59. the reason why you
want to speak for as long as you can
is because you want to show off okay you
want to show off your grammatical range
your vocabulary
your coherence and you want to tell a
nice story or as we'll see
a couple or three nice stories sometimes
the examiner will ask you a follow-up
question about this teacher for example
okay so there's a few ways to approach
speaking part
two and i highly recommend using these
approaches and not going into the exam
without a method because
it's going to be challenging so the
first method is called ppf
which stands for past present future
there's a few different ways to do this
you can tell three separate stories
about the past present and future or
just the past and present
or maybe the present and future it
doesn't matter this is very flexible
okay
or version two you can just include some
information from the past
present or future so let me
tell you what i would do with this task
card here
first thing that comes to mind is my
primary school teacher
when i was about eight years old who was
my friend's mum
and she was a fantastic teacher and i'm
still friends with him and i'm also
still friends with her now so i've got
this story there from my past okay
now what i would do is tell that story
because it's probably my best story
um but then if i feel like i'm running
out of time
or no sorry if i'm running out of ideas
what i'll then do is shift gears and
think of another teacher
maybe from the more recent present for
example i recently did an
under a postgraduate degree at
university and one of the lecturers
there was a fantastic teacher
and he taught me all about language and
linguistics blah blah blah blah
so i'm actually going to tell two
stories sometimes i might
shift and actually tell a future story
here it doesn't really work
because i can't really i could say maybe
i could just say something at the end
like in the future i'd really like to
study at stanford university because
there's a particular professor there who
i'd love to learn from
now the reason why we're doing past
present future we do this for a few
reasons
one is because we don't want to go round
and round in circles we don't want to
finish our story in 30 seconds
and then just say the same story again
and that happens quite a bit
by telling the three separate stories or
two stories
we've got lots of information lots of
language lots of ideas to work from
okay the other reason we're doing it is
because we're going to use
a range of grammar okay with the past
story we're going to be drawing on past
tense verbs i had a teacher she was
fantastic etc then with the present i'm
going to tell a more present story
recently it's still going to be the past
tense but i could say
i have been attending a class at
university
present perfect continuous okay and
maybe if i slip into a future story i'm
gonna start using
future verbs simple future or going to
or even modals would or could
or might okay this will this grammatical
range
will naturally happen as you tell the
different stories from the different
times
now i know some of you are going to say
but jay it says describe
a teacher one teacher who has
impressed you from the past the answer
to that is
we saw this speaking criteria before how
you're scored
and you are not scored about speaking
on topic okay you have to speak
loosely about this particular topic but
you are
absolutely free to go slightly off topic
or talk about
two teachers or whatever you will not be
penalized for that
and if your ielts examiner says anything
during the role play make a note of it
and make an official complaint because
the examiner is
wrong i've heard some examiners do this
so and they actually
don't know cool now
if you're not comfortable with ppf or it
doesn't quite work for you
or for whatever reason you're struggling
with that you can use the
traditional method the traditional
method for answering this question
starts
uh works like this you start with a
short
introduction so you might say something
like okay i would like to tell you
about a teacher that i had when i was
eight years old
who is now one of my good friends okay
um you could also bring in some of the
dot points there
she was my one of my friend's mothers i
met her at a small local primary school
and she has impressed upon me greatly
something like that okay
then you start going through the dot
points in more detail
i find this one difficult maybe you like
it
one of the things you need to do is
decide
which of these methods you like and
please choose now because we're about to
do some practice
maybe let's just all start with the ppf
method
okay and maybe for the second one up to
you anyway
you can decide okay
ready this time we're going to practice
by ourselves
then we're going to do it again and i'm
going to get some participants from the
audience to do it
so you have one minute to prepare
you can take notes i didn't mention that
you can take notes i recommend taking
very simple notes like a few dot points
max that's it you have one minute to
prepare
i'm going to disappear and then i want
you to speak
for two minutes okay here's your one
minute preparation time starts now
okay you can begin speaking
okay how is that for you
um as i said this is an extremely
challenging thing to do to speak for two
minutes
without conversing with somebody or i
don't know i find this very difficult
hopefully one of those methods
helped you to speak for up to two
minutes okay all right
so what we're going to do now is we're
going to go live again
and we're going to do the exact same
task card
so let me share the screen just so you
can see it in front of you
let me get this right i'm going to click
on participants
i'm going to click on attendees i'm
going to see
who wait i'm going to go to the chat
lots of people oh no vianti all right
let's do novianti
no v aunty there you are allowed to talk
hello novionti can you hear me
i think you have to unmute your
microphone there you are
yes yeah hello hello
where are you novionti uh right now i
live in jakarta
in indonesia oh daddy daddy indonesia
bhagavan di cito
sorry yeah listen your bike it's fine
here
okay fantastic okay novionti
are you ready to do this just have a go
and then i'm gonna give you some
feedback okay
okay all right so ready we'll start in
three
two one go okay today i would like to
tell you about my unpleasant trip
uh in france um
i was there with my dutch boyfriend uh
we went to paris for a first time
i think it was two years ago and
it's a little bit not
nice because uh we organized
this trip together with a tourism
organizer
but once we arrived at the art
at the airport the organizer seemed
didn't meet us
i didn't know why but and then after
that um
we decided to call that tourism
organizer and then we asked
our money back and yeah once in the blue
moon so we just
took another plant to another
city and then it went very
well um
yes if if we didn't
go to another city i think we wouldn't
find
any beautiful places there
uh we saw a lot of
nice places and
it was really nice weather because we
went there in the
winter season so
we had a chance to make a snowman
yeah i think it's a fascinating
trip at the end
all right should i stop you yeah
first of all well done um
congratulations you're very very brave
to to do this
so i applaud you well done that's
fantastic cool
all right how was that for you navianti
what what do you think happened there
um do you think it was a good
performance are you happy with your
performance do you think you could
improve and if so how
uh yeah sometimes i got stuck
with another ideas but i'm trying
i think i think the problem here for
nearly everybody is is not some
well for some people it's a language
issue for you i don't think it's so much
of a language issue it felt to me like
it was an
idea issue you sort of felt like you're
running out of ideas and
yes it's true is that true yes
yeah this is this is why this is why i
like to switch gears and tell another
story because you kind of exhaust
the first story and then you're like oh
my god this what else am i going to say
about this story
then you sort of think okay i've got
this other story so what i do in my
preparation time noviante
is on my little task card i write the
the past
story you know the trip with your
boyfriend or whatever it was
and then i write what's a more recent
journey that um that you took which was
unpleasant or whatever and you write
that one down okay
so then you'll have two and you'll be
able to shift gears because then when
you start to run out of ideas of the
first story
you simply talk about the second story
and you'll be fresh of full
of different ideas you'll be in a
different country a different place
whatever is going on
um cool all right i'll just i'll just
i'll just um
disable you from talking there cool so
that was great thank you again novianti
just a few things on language there
um first of all novianti had a good
vocabulary range lots of different words
we used including the word snowman which
i particularly liked
um novianti's vocab was precise i didn't
hear any words that sounded strange or
didn't make sense
so good vocabulary precision um
grammatically was fine but the issue
there really was
one of fluency and hesitation again
because navianti was lacking ideas and
there's no ideas there's going to be no
language okay
so i want to do this one again so let me
go back
who wants to try and who wants to try
with um
teresa let's try teresa
hello theresa
i think it might be unmute there
um hello hello how are you i'm good
that's that's good where are you from i
am from the philippines
oh fantastic okay terrific do you want
to have a go at this teresa
uh sure let's give it a try good on you
i'll give you
two minutes your time starts now
um a particular trip that i got
very disappointed with was i think it
was around
march 2020 last year before the pandemic
has started my friend and i
was supposed to go we're supposed to go
to japan
but eventually
the world wide news of kobit 19
has becoming ubiquitous and
it seems like the chances for travel
are not that successful so
um we were quite disappointed since we
have already booked
our flight to japan um
a few months ago um then
i was traveling with my very close
friend
and we really got disappointed because
uh one week prior to our flight
we received an email from the agency
that
there are no flights that will be
allowed
starting march 2020 and
we got really devastated but
at that time we had no choice but to
comply
since uh we do not have um
any choice like what i've said since we
do not want to
acquire the virus so but now
um since uh in the philippines the
cases have been low since
in comparison to last year we have
booked
for another trip to the same country
japan
with my friend and we're going there
this december
2021. i'm really excited
that was a lovely little conclusion i
like that i'm really excited it's
a nice nice way to finish thank you all
right
how do you feel about that how do you
feel about your performance you happy do
you think you could improve what do you
think
um i think i had a few ideas but
uh i think i also use the past and
future
yeah i think i need a little bit of
words
nice nice nice you did because you
talked about a new future plan so you
did shift
gears from past tense verbs to future
tense which is terrific
i also felt like sorry i also felt like
um
uh your story is very detailed you
actually have a great memory you seem to
remember dates and everything
um did you make that up or did you
actually remember that
no it was actually um a plan of ours
but the the real reason behind it was
that my parents didn't allow me
and at the same time the covet has
started so gotcha
gotcha interesting because one of the
things that you
are free to do in part two
is of course make stuff up you don't
have to tell the truth
you can fabricate a story you can
embellish
you can you can lie it doesn't matter
it's a test of your english it's not a
test of your honesty so
feel free to whatever comes into your
mind the other thing that might happen
on test day is you might get a task card
where you really
just i can't really think of a journey
that i went on that didn't go as planned
which is going to be challenging you
have to speak about this particular task
so you just make something up
and just use your imagination yes
thank you jay thank you very much for
participating that's very brave of you
okay whoops sorry press the wrong button
hold on hold on hold on come on zoom
having a little zoom thing here
uh i'm just going to leave you there for
a second because i can't seem to disable
you
but um okay let's push on
there we go got it
nope hold on one second
participants there you are
teresa
aha gotcha cool
all right sorry about that okay so let's
just check this speaking
criteria one more time so what we're
aiming to do is to be fluent and
coherent that is we want to speak
without too
much effort and as we saw before if
you're lacking ideas
then the language isn't going to come
and you're going to strain and it's
going to be with effort okay
so you want to have lots of ideas there
have a second story there
just in case now one of the things that
probably
most people didn't do there was use
connecting words so
first of all what happened in our trip
was we did this this and this
after that what happened was blah blah
blah blah blah
subsequently try to use some of these
discourse markers
to give your story a bit of structure
okay so just try and slot these in
try to segment your story so when for
example you shifted your story from
talking about what happened to your
future plan
maybe you could indicate that somehow or
signpost that
now that i've talked about what's what
happened i'll talk now about the future
what we plan to do so just tell the
examiner you're basically telling the
examiner how you're telling the story
um you need to develop the topics fully
there's vocabulary range for cab
precision same with grammatical range
grammatical accuracy and pronunciation
your pronunciation was
super clear most filipinos pronunciation
is very good
let's keep going let's do some more this
is fun let's do another one okay
this time we're going to describe a
useful course that you did
recently okay i'm just going to
disappear you have one minute to prepare
and then two minutes to speak
okay you can begin speaking
okey-dokey it's tough you need to
practice this
and i really do encourage you to use the
method i'm going to
skip through this because we're running
a little bit behind time
what we're going to do now is shift to
part three and this is a discussion and
the discussion
follows on from part two so if you were
talking about a journey in part
two you would then start a more
philosophical deeper discussion in part
three about journeys or transport or
travel
or something like that so we're going to
continue the discussion now about
education
okay so you'll get a few questions it
depends on how long you spoke for in
part two
maybe three maybe five maybe eight
questions related to that particular
task card
it's not an iq test it's a language test
so just make stuff up it doesn't matter
you're not judged on the quality
of your ideas you're judging the quality
of your language
it's going to be more abstract it's not
personal this time
this time you're talking about concepts
ideas
philosophies whatever you're not talking
about you so much okay
and in doing that you're going to use
more complex language
we're going to touch on the same method
about giving an opinion
details contrast comparing or reasons
let's do it oh i'm not allowed to show
you those
okay let's go valentine valentine
valentine hold on okay i'm gonna stop
sharing uh how do i do this again
v for valentine here you go hello
valentine can you hear me
hi good aj i can hear you clearly
fantastic where are you from
i'm from the nigeria league of states oh
fantastic we've got a nice mix of
students here
okay you ready i'm going to ask you some
questions you have to give me some nice
uh deep answers okay so we're carrying
on from the education topic
so valentine what qualities does a good
student have do you think
oh well a good student should have
possessed someone
very deep qualities uh you should be
able to
hear things listen properly
give valid answers should be able to
think on your feet like speedy
processing
um not wasting too much time
hitting the nail on the head giving
valid points
and no taking too much time is really
important as well
doing good right things what makes a
good teacher
okay interesting question the ability to
uh
maximize maximize time
you could have um things to do in
40 minutes and in in 10 minutes you're
passing your message and
the class is like coming along with you
you know
gallivanting not beating around the bush
you're passing your messages directly
giving valid examples
has teaching changed much in your
lifetime
well not particularly or my
parts or worst day my side
teaching is um well with the growth of
science and technology it has really
helped
quite honestly so multi so from certain
extent
yes it has changed it has changed quite
right
do you think computers or artificial
intelligence will one day replace
teachers
or like i said earlier with the growth
of technology
there's a possibility that that might
happen
take for example the kovid 19 period we
had um
robots attending to patients serving
them
foods and all that they replaced the
individuals at that point in time
so with the look of things it's there's
a very
large possibility that that might happen
but then at the end of the day
it can replace the human brain i must
say
valentine do you think that children and
adults learn differently
well yes i do reason being
[Music]
where the children we're having these
days are
quite much more smarter than we adults
they have a more uh what's the word
they have a more expansive brain
if there's anything like a search i mean
you have a child of
a year plus or even younger
speaking and back then while we were
growing up
i mean you you might not be able to
pronounce a certain word until you're
like
two years old but you have a child of
six eight months
same things at this present age so the
level of learning
right now is diversifying
do you think online learning is
as effective as face-to-face learning
well yes online learning is effective i
bet to agree because i'm going back to
the
corona period as well a lot of people
had to resort to um
learning online schools were closed down
teachers had to
communicate with their students one of
them on that
social media and this zoom for example
and yeah it is that
effective because um we had people doing
practicals i had friends that i stayed
with
attending practical classes online uh
taking assignments doing presentations
doing their project defenses
and as also um yes i i see
yeah it is as effective as face-to-face
but then there's much more fun when
there's a face-to-face class
because when you're taking online
classes that is like the disadvantage
there's a larger number of people like
we have here right now
okay i'll stop you there okay thank you
very much
cool well done first of all um your
command of english is
is really good you're you're a great
student to to listen to and i imagine
you'd be a good person to have a
conversation with
and that's kind of what you have to do
here you have to kind of be interesting
you know think of interesting ideas and
say interesting things and
use interesting language to convey those
ideas and you did that really well
so your fluency was nice you had a nice
tempo
you didn't seem to be struggling or
hesitating with the language it seemed
to flow quite nicely
i have to give you a very high score for
vocabulary
not just because you said individual
words correctly but you had
you you spoke in wonderful little
phrases
okay so valid points think on your feet
i tend to disagree you have these
wonderful what are called collocations
or natural sounding phrases so i would
certainly give you a high score there
for vocabulary
um your grammar would very much was
really good
now here's an interesting thing with
pronunciation you have a a strong
accent not a thick accent though so
or you met like i i could understand you
fine i understand that you haven't i
could hear your accent
but it didn't impede my understanding of
what you were saying so
your accent is not an impediment it's
fine
but one thing people will have to be
careful of is when their accent
actually influences or impedes the
english
sounds and therefore it's going to be a
little bit of difficult for me to
understand as the examiner
so overall um yeah really well done
i think you spoke for a good length of
time for each question don't speak for
too long just
you know punch out some good ideas and
then stop you don't have to keep
speaking like part two
then wait for the examiner to ask you
the next question
all right fantastic thanks so much for
joining me thank you very much
appreciate
terrific cool all right
uh it's just about time for me to finish
this but this has been
super fun i really liked it i'm
definitely going to do this again
and i really want you to click that
subscribe button there
so the next one that i do you'll be well
aware of it but if you
really want to be aware of what's going
on with ielts preparation you need to
come across to e2language.com you can
sign up for free
and all of your preparation needs will
be taken care of there
excuse me um i think that's all from me
there's a live class starting at e2
language right now in two minutes it's a
grammar clinic for ielts with murray
claire
i highly recommend you check that one
out if you need some help with your
grammar
one thing i will do just before i go is
this we talked a little bit about
pronunciation then
and what i want to do is just share with
you something
we've just released this new website
called e2school.com and
on this website not e2 language this is
a different one
this website is for general english
language skills including
a pronunciation course that will help
you with the clarity of your
speech it's a ripper there's also a free
grammar course
there's a placement test there's general
english level one two three
four and five there's even a spelling
course on there so do check that out
cool bananas thanks very much i thought
that was great fun
hopefully i'll see you next time